# Routing Protocols

Routing protocols are the family of network protocols that enable computer routers to communicate by intelligently forward traffic between their respective networks.


Every network routing protocol performs three basic functions:

* Discovery – identify other routers on the network.
* Route management – keep track of all the possible destinations (for network messages) along with some data describing the pathway of each.
* Path determination – make dynamic decisions for where to send each network message.

## IGP Vs. EGP Protocols
* What is Autonomous systems
* What is Autonomous System Numbers


Types of Routing Protocols

* link-state protocols: enable a router to build and track a full map of all network links in a region.
* distance-vector protocols: allow routers to work with less information about the network area.

Five Most Popular Routing Protocols

## Routing Information Protocol (RIP)
Researchers developed Routing Information Protocol (RIP) in the 1980s for use on small- or medium-sized internal networks that connected to the early Internet. RIP is capable of routing messages across networks up to a maximum of 15 hops.

RIP-enabled routers discover the network by first sending a message requesting router tables from neighboring devices. Neighbor routers running RIP respond by sending the full routing tables back to the requestor, whereupon the requestor follows an algorithm to merge these updates into its own table. At scheduled intervals, RIP routers then periodically send out their router tables to their neighbors so that any changes can be propagated across the network.

Traditional RIP supported only IPv4 networks but the newer RIPng standard also supports IPv6. RIP utilizes either UDP ports 520 or 521 (RIPng) for its communication.

## Open Shortest Path First (OSPF)
Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) was created to overcome some of its limitations of RIP including:

* 15 hop count restriction.
* Inability to organize networks into a routing hierarchy, important for manageability and performance on large internal networks.
* Significant spikes of network traffic generated by repeatedly re-sending full router tables at scheduled intervals.

As the name suggests, OSPF is an open public standard with widespread adoption across many industry vendors. OSPF-enabled routers discover the network by sending identification messages to each other followed by messages that capture specific routing items rather than the entire routing table. It is the only link-state routing protocol listed in this category.

## EIGRP and IGRP
Cisco developed Internet Gateway Routing Protocol as another alternative to RIP. The newer Enhanced IGRP (EIGRP) made IGRP obsolete starting in the 1990s. EIGRP supports classless IP subnets and improves the efficiency of the routing algorithms compared to older IGRP. It does not support routing hierarchies, like RIP. Originally created as a proprietary protocol runnable only on Cisco family devices, EIGRP was designed with the goals of easier configuration and better performance than OSPF.

## IS-IS
The Intermediate System to Intermediate System protocol functions similarly to OSPF. While OSPF became the more popular choice overall, IS-IS remains in widespread use by service providers who have benefitted from the protocol being more easily adaptable to their specialized environments. Unlike the other protocols in this category, IS-IS does not run over Internet Protocol (IP) and uses its own addressing scheme.

## BGP and EGP
The Border Gateway Protocol is the internet standard External Gateway Protocol (EGP). BGP detects modifications to routing tables and selectively communicates those changes to other routers over TCP/IP.

Internet providers commonly use BGP to join their networks together. Additionally, larger businesses sometimes also use BGP to connect multiple internal networks. Professionals consider BGP the most challenging of all routing protocols to perfect due to its configuration complexity.


--------------

## Interior Gateway Protocols (IGP)

An interior gateway protocol (IGP) is a type of protocol used for exchanging routing information between gateways (commonly routers) within an autonomous system (for example, a system of corporate local area networks). This routing information can then be used to route network-layer protocols like IP.

By contrast, exterior gateway protocols are used to exchange routing information between autonomous systems and rely on IGPs to resolve routes within an autonomous system.

## Exterior Gateway Protocol (EGP)
Exterior Gateway Protocol (EGP) is used to exchange net-reachability information between Internet gateways belonging to the same or different autonomous systems.

EGP was developed by Bolt, Beranek and Newman in the early 1980s. It was first described in RFC 827 and formally specified in RFC 904 (1984).

### Applications of Exterior Gateway Protocol (EGP):
During the early days of the Internet, EGP was frequently used by research institutes, universities, government agencies and private organizations, to interconnect autonomous systems but was replaced by Border Gateway Protocol (BGP).

### How it works?
EGP was originally designed to communicate reachability to and from the Advanced Research Projects Agency Network (ARPANET) core routers. Information was passed from individual source nodes in distinct Internet administrative domains called autonomous systems (ASs) up to the core routers, which passed the information through the backbone until it could be passed down to the destination network within another AS.

Unlike most other protocols, EGP is focused on network reachability and does not consider any metrics to calculate the best path.

EGP has three major functions:

* Establish a set of neighbours
* Check status of neighbours(if they are alive/reachable)
* Inform neighbours the networks that reachable within their AS’s
Message formats:

Neighbor Acquisition: To establish/de-establish neighbourship
Neighbor Reachability: To check if neighbors are alive
Poll: To ensure reachability of a particular network
Routing Update: To share network reachability information
Error: To inform the error occurred
Advantages and Disadvantages:
EGP was the first exterior gateway protocol that gained widespread acceptance in the Internet. The routing table is stable with minimal changes as the protocol does not react to issues within the Autonomous system.

EGP is a simple reachability protocol, and, unlike modern distance-vector and path-vector protocols, it is limited to tree-like topologies and does not support multipath networking environments, making it less efficient.

Since this routing protocol is designed to be centrally controlled, it reduces the scalability which is a major drawback in today’s fast growing Internet.

Another reason is that no central authority controls the commercialized Internet. The Internet is composed of many equal networks. In a distributed architecture, the autonomous systems require routing protocols, both interior and exterior, that can make intelligent routing choices. Because of this, EGP is no longer popular.
